Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to talk about key frames key frames are going to enable us to create an
animation very similar to this.
I've got a few other tweaks in here as well.
And you can see it runs with Look Dev as well.
And it will work kind of with cycles but we can't really play about that back in real time.
So when we're assessing animation will often use something that's a bit quicker to see even though we
won't see the full final render as it would be in cycles.
So let's hop over and find out more okay.
So we're starting in the default scene at the moment because I don't want to ruin my current lamp setup.
I know I can revert back.
But also this is a much cleaner environment to work with if you don't have your timeline at the bottom.
You can make it appear that make it disappear by just describing one of the lower corners and perhaps
bringing up a never throw the editor and switching it across to an A.
It's in the animation column the timeline.
There's also an animation section at the top here workspace that you can switch over to if you want
to.
Now because we got well because personally I have very minimal space on my screen I'm quite happy using
what I've got in front of me here.
So key frames what are they.
Well they're a recording of where something is at a moment in time.
So for instance if I was to open up the properties sidebar here we've got our location our rotation
and our scale.
But key frames aren't just limited to that.
Pretty much everything in Blender can be key frames.
There are some limitations though it won't affect everything but nearly everything can be.
So for instance here if I wanted to add a key frame to the location to say this is where the cube starts
when we press play well we can hover over this area and press the Iki or we can right click and insert
key frames and underneath we have a little extra so we can insert a single key frame so I right click
on The X column I can insert a single key frame.
So what happens if I just hover over this section here and press I the whole lot goes yellow.
Now the moment I move the cube elsewhere you notice it will go orange indicating that the information
there is different from what it is on the current key frame.
So if I was to move the play head to somewhere else and come back again it won't remember where it was
previously.
And that's something that will catch you out from time to time.
You'll move that say to frame 40 you'll move your cube to somewhere else that you want it to move from
and to and you'll go Oh yeah that's good.
And then you'll click elsewhere and it will snap back to the beginning.
So it's incredibly important.
Just bear in mind that's when you move your cue ball rotate it or scale it.
Let's do this now let's press G move the cube.
Then we go over to the area that we want to key and press eye.
And there we go.
That is now key.
Then what happens when we play this back.
Well let's go back to the beginning.
We're going to jump back to the very beginning of the animation and press play and there we go.
We've started to animate something.
Now one of the things that often catches me out is let's say on frame 40 we wanted to rotate it on the
y axis by a number 61 degrees.
There we go and we go in key that's in.
The problem is we never keyed in a starting frame.
So when we go back to frame one it's not going to automatically rotate round.
So that's something just bear in mind that's if you're planning on doing a rotation a location in the
sky or even any of the other parameters we have in blender that you can key in and you can also do this
with materials and so many things.
It's incredibly powerful.
You can get up so it's always good it's a key in the starting value before you start tweaking anything
else.
So for instance in this case I knew it was 0 0 0 7 I can key that all in and then when I press play
is going to both rotate and move at the same time.
So that set basically and you can add more and more keys in.
Now ideally you don't want a key.
Every frame that would make your animation quite jerky you'd see here placing key frames at specific
points will make your animation very smooth.
However what can happen is you might end up with pieces of your model passing through others because
you're not explicitly controlling it between these two points you're literally saying between here and
here interpolate between these two positions.
And we'll talk about the graph editor in a bit which says how it makes that movement.
And at the moment we're dealing with the timeline and shortly the dope sheets as well where we really
are looking at when things are happening.
Finally here on the timeline itself if you wanted to let's say this is the cube cube object transformations
faster the left click on those I can move them earlier or later.
That's incredibly useful because what that means is I can adjust the speed of an animation as we get
to the lamp actually jumping.
You will find that where you thought things should be you might need to make it a bit shorter.
Let's say you're jumping up you go up in that arc.
He reached the high point you slowed down at that point then you come back down again and you're probably
going to get the timing of that wrong the first time round.
But armed with this knowledge of inserting key frames it's time for you to make your first pass at animating
your lamp and your challenge is to animate your lamp.
Now we're not going to do a full animation at this point.
I want you to focus on broad movements not focusing on detailed movement at all.
Focus on those major movements.
Where's your lamp going to be.
How is it going to jump up.
Remember we're animating impose mode when we do this except sliding and passing through other objects.
If that happens that's going to be tidied up as we start processing the animation as we go through the
next couple of lectures Paul's video now and give that a go
Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's go ahead now hop on over into blender and start the animation of our lamp.
Okay so let's go ahead and open up our animated lamp.
So this is where we left off before.
And I want to make the broad movements to the base.
I'm going to make sure that that's selected.
Of course we do want to make sure that we're back at frame one.
It's very tempting to go all the way back to zero.
Now there are a couple of ways of getting all the way back that you may have noticed if you hover over
here.
You can shift and left arrow and it will take you there.
You can also just type in number one here.
Now I'm going to do the broad movements here and I'm probably not going to have these markers that that
to me doesn't feel right.
The landing is probably going to be much closer and the crash landing may be a bit closer as well.
I don't I don't know at the moment and the jump we're going to crouch down we're going to jump up I
think and take it from there but I'm going to look from the side and I'm going to say well start with
let's set the location and the rotation.
I'm definitely not scaling.
So that's okay and I'm going to work just on the base for the moment.
So let's say we were going to jump we might ROP ords or backwards would we might rock backwards.
So I'm going to rotate this round ever so slightly just a bit subtly and I need to make sure that I'm
going to go g z the press said twice to just lift it up says rocking on the back here.
Now there's a better way of doing that.
Let's just keep those in because I'm going to rock to the front.
Now I'm going to use the 3d cursor to do so.
Although now we're in the middle it probably be absolutely fine to just go like that.
Okay.
So I was just thinking that if I had said to the 3d cursor I could have easily pivoted it up but then
moving the 3d cursor back might not have worked.
It would have only worked at the moment because I'm in the center of my scene.
I did accidentally key in quick turning on then so I'm going to right click and delete that key frame
clear key frames.
By the way we'll clear all key frames that you have used.
So do be careful with that one.
So at this point we're going to rock forward.
See is flying at that point so that is an issue as it's going across here really needs a mid point where
we're back down on the ground.
So jeez that said the lower that back down key that's in and keep the rotation as well.
So now we're the back foot and then we're going to jump up and I don't know jumping around here and
we're going to make an arc something like that to land if we probably do with it being a bit closer
but we'll run with what we've got at the moment so we can to lift this up.
I'm going to put it all the way up there.
We're probably going to be a bit more tilted forward and key those in than the landing let's say it's
going to be about their move it down for a tight round.
That's key those in.
And again this is rough and ready at the moment.
And then of course we're going to rock forward.
That's probably going to be a bit of sliding here.
But that's that's also OK because this is something that is going to be sliding isn't it because we're
going to suddenly I'm going to slide this off ever so slightly so and I do that it's going to take a
little longer to get to the edge.
And I know exactly what the pivot point will be
about their as you can see this this process is a little bit repetitive.
And then the crash landing it's going to fall off hit the ground for a tight round come up a little
yes something like that.
So that's a reasonable stance.
Let's just play that through and see how we're looking we're going to jump up land.
Now obviously there's a bit slide in that and then we're gonna fall off and that's a really subtle falling
this.
That's not very quick at all so let's see if we can just drag that back.
So get to the edge and improve it too quick so we can start tweaking now and moving these key frames
about now I'm trying to do the rotation and the movement in one go if nothing else for my own sanity.
So not not got tons and tons of key frames to move around they're all happening at the same time.
That's not necessarily the way you would do all animations.
It's just cutting corners at the moment.
Right now we go through and we can do the top bit of the lamp so we grab the control bone and then we're
going to animate that now we've lost the other markers here but we can run through that is fine because
this is going to be an independent.
So we've got it shifting back so we're going to key in our starting position because if we don't do
that we'll lose the information.
So we've got a moment here if at this point we've got all of the other key frames where happening so
I'm going to press G and just move this back saying we press the Y I think that can go much further
back actually because of the limitations we put on it.
So that's fine.
And then here I'm going to skip the other key frame and I'm going to start to stretch this out maybe
and tuck up ready for the jump yes we get.
And then the jump itself.
We're going to stretch out at this point.
Key that's in.
And as we start just going through the process against it we're going to land here.
Obviously going to be back that's key that's in here.
We're leaning further back.
I'll keep pressing a lots of keys here and we don't want it twisting through itself.
This is one of the issues if he popped your controls a little bit too close to the model you can end
up with it flipping round.
In fact I don't mind it flipping round because it's going to look at us at this point.
So let's go jump up land that's too quick.
You notice it snaps across.
So we just need to watch out for that.
The way that we can start sorting that out is making sure it's not inside it.
So if we go Gee X and then it's definitely looking at us.
So also pulled it towards us as well which I'm not sure I want but let's see what it looks like when
we animator land help me at this point.
I think the lamp should be looking to its doom.
So let's bring this back round and probably down as well at this point so let's just run that through.
That swings round and now at this point we don't want it just splashing on the floor and going through
the floor.
So can I grab this out pull it out.
It's going to be around here I think.
Make sure we keep that in.
I almost skipped back then.
We've got this.
This is because the I'm going to add in just a little bit of a bounce here.
Let's see what that looks like as it comes off lands.
It's okay.
These can probably be a bit closer together.
Give it the appropriate focus.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm going to leave it like that.
I did say to you guys didn't I do not concentrate on detail and off I go I'm going to clear my annotations
for the moment but I've got on the screens.
It's nice and clear.
Let's just have a look at what it looks like when I press play jump up land on the block.
Scared fall off and splat.
Okay.
I think that's a great start.
Awesome.
Let's have a look at it in sort of a semi rendered mode as well make it full screen we Awesome.
Okay.
I hope you guys are starting to have lots of fun with this.
And don't just stop at one animation try a couple of different animations and see which one you like
the best.
Obviously I have my storyboard where I've imagined jumping up like this and then falling off but really
do take the time to just try outs and different moves perhaps half the lamp jumping on the spot with
excitement.
It's entirely up to you how you go about making your animation look forward to seeing them.
Please share them over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.